Add rki_covid integration docs (#20488)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/rki_covid.markdown

---
title: RKI Covid numbers
description: Robert-Koch Institut COVID Numbers within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Health
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: '2021.12'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@thebino'
ha_domain: rki_covid
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

This integration provides the covid numbers in germany on district level published by the [Robert Koch-Institut](https://www.rki.de).

> 
> - **count**: Confirmed cases
> - **newCases**: New confirmed cases
> - **deaths**: The numbers of confirmed deaths
> - **newDeaths**: The numbers of new confirmed deaths
> - **recovered**: The numbers of confirmed recoveries
> - **newRecovered**: The numbers of new confirmed recoveries
> - **casesPer100k**: Convirmed cases per 100.000 inhabitants
> - **weekIncidence**: The week incidence per 100.000 inhabitants
> - **hospitalizationCasesMerged**: Hospitalization cases for people in germany summarized  
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceMerged**: Hospitalization incidence for people in germany summarized 
> - **hospitalizationCasesBaby**: Hospitalization cases for people between 00-04 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceBaby**: Hospitalization incidence for people between 00-04 
> - **hospitalizationCasesChildren**: Hospitalization cases for people between 05-14 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceChildren**: Hospitalization incidence for people between 05-14 
> - **hospitalizationCasesTeen**: Hospitalization cases for people between 15-34 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceTeen**: Hospitalization incidence for people between 15-34 
> - **hospitalizationCasesGrown**: Hospitalization cases for people between 35-59 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceGrown**: Hospitalization incidence for people between 35-59 
> - **hospitalizationCasesSenior**: Hospitalization cases for people between 60-79 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceSenior**: Hospitalization incidence for people between 60-79 
> - **hospitalizationCasesOld**: Hospitalization cases for people older than 80 
> - **hospitalizationIncidenceOld**: Hospitalization incidence for people older than 80 
> 
> **Hint:** Repeat the process to add multiple districts or states.
> 
> {% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

**Hint:** Repeat the process to add multiple districts or states.

## Provided sensors

- Confirmed cases
- New confirmed cases
- The numbers of confirmed deaths
- The numbers of new confirmed deaths
- The numbers of confirmed recoveries
- The numbers of new confirmed recoveries
- Confirmed cases per 100.000 inhabitants
- The week incidence per 100.000 inhabitants
- Hospitalization cases for people in Germany summarized  
- Hospitalization incidence for people in Germany summarized 
- Hospitalization cases for people between 00-04 
- Hospitalization incidence for people between 00-04 
- Hospitalization cases for people between 05-14 
- Hospitalization incidence for people between 05-14 
- Hospitalization cases for people between 15-34 
- Hospitalization incidence for people between 15-34 
- Hospitalization cases for people between 35-59 
- Hospitalization incidence for people between 35-59 
- Hospitalization cases for people between 60-79 
- Hospitalization incidence for people between 60-79 
- Hospitalization cases for people older than 80 
- Hospitalization incidence for people older than 80 
```

---
title: RKI Covid numbers
description: Robert-Koch Institut COVID Numbers within Home Assistant.
ha_category:
  - Health
ha_iot_class: Cloud Polling
ha_release: '2021.12'
ha_config_flow: true
ha_codeowners:
  - '@thebino'
ha_domain: rki_covid
ha_platforms:
  - sensor
---

> This integration allows to visualize the covid numbers provided by the [Robert Koch-Institut](https://www.rki.de). Multiple sensors clustered by districts express detailed information on local regions and areas.

Reviewer: The integration provides data, it does not visualize it...

|Sensor  |Type|Description
|:-----------|:---|:------------

> |`sensor.NAME_count`| number | indicates the confirmed cases.

Reviewer: Entity IDs are not guaranteed, in general it is better to describe what sensors are provided instead.

|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesTeen` | float | Hospitalization cases for people between 15-34 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceTeen` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people between 15-34 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesGrown` | float | Hospitalization cases for people between 35-59 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceGrown` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people between 35-59 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesSenior` | float | Hospitalization cases for people between 60-79 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceSenior` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people between 60-79 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesOld` | float | Hospitalization cases for people older than 80 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceOld` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people older than 80 |

## Configuration
Open the `Configuration` of your Home Assistant instance and select `Integrations`.
Add a new integration, search and select `rki covid`.
A dialog appears to select a district or state to monitor.
After submitting the dialog, the newly added sensor entities are available.

**Hint:** Repeat the process to add multiple districts or states.

> ![Integration used within the lovelace](/images/integrations/rki_covid/lovelace_graph.png)

Reviewer: This is not a standard configuration; the result of this is that the user might think something is wrong. E.g., they add the integration and don't get this out of the box...

Author: So the lovelace example should be removed or just a note added to tell users, what a card could look like?

Reviewer: I would suggest removing it. Keeping things like this up to date is a challenge.

Author: done

> ## Configuration
> Open the `Configuration` of your Home Assistant instance and select `Integrations`.
> Add a new integration, search and select `rki covid`.
> A dialog appears to select a district or state to monitor.
> After submitting the dialog, the newly added sensor entities are available.
> 
> **Hint:** Repeat the process to add multiple districts or states.
> 
> ![Integration used within the lovelace](/images/integrations/rki_covid/lovelace_graph.png)
> 
> {% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

![Integration used within the lovelace](/images/integrations/rki_covid/lovelace_graph.png)
```

|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceGrown` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people between 35-59 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesSenior` | float | Hospitalization cases for people between 60-79 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceSenior` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people between 60-79 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationCasesOld` | float | Hospitalization cases for people older than 80 |
|`sensor.NAME_hospitalizationIncidenceOld` | float | Hospitalization incidence for people older than 80 |

## Configuration
Open the `Configuration` of your Home Assistant instance and select `Integrations`.
Add a new integration, search and select `rki covid`.
A dialog appears to select a district or state to monitor.
After submitting the dialog, the newly added sensor entity is available.

**Hint:** Repeat the process to add multiple districts or states.

Districts can also be configured via `configuration.yaml`:

```yaml
# Example configuration.yaml entry
sensor:
  - platform: rki_covid
    districts:
     - name: 'SK Augsburg'
     - name: 'SK Berlin Mitte'
     - name: 'BL Bayern'
     - name: 'LK München'

> ```

Reviewer: We don't allow YAML configuration for new integration that connects to devices or services.

Author: Thank you, removed.

  - sensor
---

This integration provides the covid numbers in germany on district level published by the [Robert Koch-Institut](https://www.rki.de).

|Sensor  |Type|Description
|:-----------|:---|:------------

> |`count`| number | indicates the confirmed cases.

Reviewer: These are still code fenced, which indicates it is code? Is that intended?

Author: I don't understand? The count is the number of confirmed cases in the sensors district.

Reviewer: Sure, but is is code fenced with backticks, so it is code? What does it mean?

Author: Ah, you mean the single quotes. I can remove them.

Reviewer: Those are backticks, not single quotes 😉 

Anyways, the point being: "hospitalizationIncidenceMerged" <- That looks like code. Can we make it a human form?

Author: Do you have any recommendations? I think sensors do not support sub-sensor like structure?

Reviewer: Just provide titles and descriptions of the sensors provided?

Author: like
| title | description |
|:-----|:--------|
| merged hospitalization incidence | Calculated hospitalization incidence of all states merged together |

Reviewer: Yes, but as a list, not table; as tables are hard to consume on mobile devices.

Author: okay, now as a list.
